---- FILE HEADER ---------------------------------------------------------------
project: 	Project 2
file: 		project2.txt
author: 	Elias Abderhalden
date: 		2016-03-24
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
class: 		ece4400 spring 2016
instructor: Dr. Kuang-Ching Wang
assignment: Project 2
purpose: 	GENI
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




1. 	The main advantage of the SDN/OpenFlow protocol is that the links are more
dependable and adaptable. For example, the ability to adapt allows SDN/OpenFlow
to keep a connection or running fast even when there was a interruption or
slowdown in one of the links by rerouting traffic to a fail-safe redundant
link. The main drawback of SDN/OpenFlow is that it can only be applied in
situations where the hardware is available, the configuration of the virtual
routers is manageable, and the need for an adaptable network exists. For
networks that are somewhat small or very stable and consistent there exists
almost no need for SDN/OpenFlow.


2. 	An OpenFlow group is a set of buckets, which are sets of abstract
operations that depend on the group type. So, an OpenFlow group just applies a
certain action using the buckets for each packet given to the group. A OpenFlow
flow, on the other hand, is a rule that applies a incomming packet to a group,
mostly by differentiating by type/protocol of packet.


3. 	The floodlight OpenFlow controller sets up all of the OpenFlow groups,
buckets, and flows on the individual OpenFlow nodes. However, it can also
change the settings as the network is active which allows greater flexibity
than a traditional, non-OpenFlow/SDN network.

4. 	The main motivation for having link redundancy is that the connection will
stay up even if one of the links has a disturbance or disconnects completely.
This is especially important when the network is critical, like a hospital or
military network.


5. 	For this tutorial the controller was involved in the failover execution by
selecting which links were considered up and which were considered down and
therefore controlling which link was used for data transfer.  However, in a
real event were one of the links had just failed the node would use the
OpenFlow failover group to switch over to the connection still up by itself
without using the controller. The controller not being needed for failover
switching is one of the main reasons failover groups can be enacted so fast.


6. 	I did not notice any loss in packets during failover execution in the
tutorial when I used the ping command. All of the sequence numbers matched up,
even when the network was switched multiple times during the same transmittion
period. However I did use the iperf utility and that yielded a %0.11 loss in
packets (1 out of 893 packets).


7. 	If a link is disconnected while a packet is transmitted across it, there
will be some loss of data simply because part of the packet will have been cut
out and won't be received by the receiving node. The propagation delay dictates
that the all of the bits in the packet will not arrive at the same time and
that while some bits might have been received, some bits are still being
transmitted within the link and could possibly be lost. An unlikely scenario is
that the receiving node can perform error detection and the sending node has
buffered the packet and is able to retransmit it.


